Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to talk about Ajax.
All right, so this is going to be another theoretical lecture starting from our next lecture, we're
going to dive into how we can implement a JavaScript.
But first, we need to understand the theory behind the practice.
So we have Ajax, which is asynchronous JavaScript and XML.
We know the asynchronous JavaScript part.
We have talked about a lot and I'm not going to go over again.
The XML is actually referring to the XML http request.
The XML HTP request is an object that is used to communicate with the server.
All right.
So whenever as a client or whenever the browser or whenever you are, for example, let's say you are
on YouTube and you're you click on a video, what happens and HTTP request or a hypertext transfer protocol
request is made to the server or is made to that API endpoint.
The request is met to this to an API endpoint.
That API endpoint is going to grab our request and it is going to give it to the server.
Right, because the communication layer is actually API.
API allows us to communicate.
That is the channel, OK, and we through that channel we make HTP requests and we get a response.
Now typically we used to get responses in amount, but we get nowadays we get responses in.
Jason, recently for the past few years, we get responses in Jason.
Jason is JavaScript object notation and it is actually a strength.
And you can there are methods like pass where you can convert that into something that we can understand
in JavaScript.
Right.
And we can use it in JavaScript.
All right.
So so this request is made to the server.
The server is going to respond with your data and you will be able to, for example, to view posts,
view to DOS, view users, leave a post and do anything that you normally do on the Internet.
All right.
So this is how it works.
Now, coming back to the TTP now before coming here, I just want to talk about the API endpoint.
The API endpoint is where you make that request inside this JavaScript file.
Inside a JavaScript file.
And the API, in case you're wondering, is created using any backend language like Python and Ruby,
Java, JavaScript or anything else or go, you can create APIs.
In case you're wondering about that, if you are a font fronton developer, then you should mainly be
concerned with using and interacting with that API, not creating it.
If you know how to create it, that's even better.
But if you are a fool, if you're a full stack, or if you're thinking of becoming a false force, then
you should know how APIs are created and should be able to design APIs.
You should know the best practices in API design and I think we are done with this diagram.
So Ajax is a I'm just going to go over this Ajax one more time.
Ajax is asynchronous JavaScript and XML.
Why do we need Ajax is because Ajax has two major features.
One, Ajax allows us to make requests to the server without reloading the page, and two, Ajax allows
us to receive and work with data from the server.
Right.
So that's why we use Ajax and well, there are new methods, newer methods like API and the Async,
a suite which don't use Ajax or the XML, which do not use that.
But still we are going to go over this old way of doing it, the old school way of doing it, because
if you understand that, you will be able to understand the newer methods like Fritschi API, like the
the async await.
You can understand them better.
Right.
So at the end of this lecture, I just want to give you these resources.
This is the TTP status codes.
You need to understand this because depending on whenever you make a request to the server, they request
it doesn't matter what their request is, it is definitely going to have a specific status.
Now, that status is going to give you an information, the kind of information that you will understand,
OK, whether my request has been successful, whether I have been redirected, whether I have an error
on the client side or an error on the server side.
What is the problem?
Why did I why didn't I get my information?
Or if I didn't get my information, what was the status code for that?
We're going to work with this status code of 200 more than the rest of them.
But these are these are provided here.
You can go to this issue, TTP status, and you can read about all specific individual status status
codes.
All right.
And you should know this as well as because we're working now with the servers.
That's why we need to understand what this HTTP status codes are.
And then we have TTP methods for the most part for this chapter.
We're going to use the get method.
The gett method requests a representation of the specified resource requests using GET should only retrieve
data.
So we we are going to use that get for the most part for this chapter because we want to retrieve data.
First off, we are going to start with the local data, the data that is inside this chapter.
And then what we are going to do is we are going to grab we are going to fetch data from an API endpoint
as well.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.